# Tutorial on Using TimeGAN to Generate Historical Stock Price Data
by Cydney Martell and Idris Sunmola

Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) are a machine learning approach developed by Ian Goodfellow et al. in 2014 that use deep learning methods generate synthetic datasets. The overarching goal is to train a generator and discriminator in a competitive setting so the generator creates samples that the discriminator cannot distinguish from the real training data. GANs have been applied to generating high resolution images and in image to image translation. In addition to applications in image data, GANs have also been developed to generate synthetic time series datasets for applications in financial trading.  

In this tutorial, we will explain the TimeGAN architecture developed by Yoon et al. 2019 [1] and how it can be used to generate temporal time series data. We will then explain how to replicate TimeGAN and train it on our dataset to generate synthetic historical stock price dataset. The original manuscript can be found at the following link: https://papers.nips.cc/paper/2019/file/c9efe5f26cd17ba6216bbe2a7d26d490-Paper.pdf. 

Through this tutorial you will learn:
* The basics of TimeGAN architecture 
* How to set up the loss functions for TimeGAN 
* How to train the generator and discriminator 
* How to evaluate the quality of the synthetic time-series data generated by TimeGAN

## Tutorial Overview
1. Introduction to using GANs to generate temporal data
2. Historical stock prices dataset
3. Overview of TimeGAN architecture
4. Description of loss functions
5. How to train the generator
6. How to train the discriminator
8. Evaluation of training results
9. Conclusions and future applications

## Introduction to using GANs to generate temporal data
There is a need to generate synthetic time series data sets to augment these datasets for applications in financial trading and the medical field [2]. Data augmentation of time series data sets could be especially useful in scenarios where privacy is an issue and to reduce backtest overfitting in models trained on historical time series data which is scarce [3]. Developing a model to generate synthetic time series data is particularly challenging because the model needs to learn both the feature distributions at a specific time point and the dynamics of these features across time. 

In the mauscript, Yoon et.al summarize and compare their TimeGAN architecture to other models developed to generate synthetic time series data.
  1. Autoregressive Recurrent Networks
  2. GAN Based Approaches <br>
**FINISH THIS**

## Historical stock prices dataset
We trained our replicated TimeGAN architechture on the 

''python 
def get_wiki_prices():
    """source: https://www.quandl.com/api/v3/datatables/WIKI/PRICES?qopts.export=true&api_key=<API_KEY>
        Download and rename to wiki_prices.csv
    """

    df = pd.read_csv('Wiki.csv',
                     parse_dates=['date'],
                     index_col=['date', 'ticker'],
                     infer_datetime_format=True)

    print(df.info(null_counts=True))
    with pd.HDFStore('assets.h5') as store:
        store.put('quandl/wiki/prices', df)
        ''

## Overview of TimeGAN architecture

## Description of loss functions

## How to train the generator

## How to train the discriminator

## Evaluation of training results
After training the model, we were able to generate synthetic stock price data for 84 tickers. 


Now we want to assess the quality of this synthetic data to evaluate our replication of the TimeGAN architechture. We will use the same criteria as Yoon et. al to evaluate the quality of the synthetic time series data generated by our model. The three criteria will will use are:
  1. Diversity
  2. Fidelity
  3. Usefulness 
 
### Diversity
First, we will investigate the diversity of the dataset. The main question we are asking here is: does the synthetic data distribution match the distribution of the real data? 


### Fidelity 
Next, we will investigate the fidelity of the dataset. Primarly we want to know, is the synthetic price series indistinguishable from the real data. 

### Usefulness
Lastly, we will look at the usefulness of the synthetic data. So, we want to know is the synthetic data series as useful as the real data for solving a predictive task. 


## Conclusions and future applications

## References
[1] https://papers.nips.cc/paper/2019/file/c9efe5f26cd17ba6216bbe2a7d26d490-Paper.pdf <br>
[2] https://arxiv.org/pdf/2002.12478.pdf <br>
[3] http://www.blackarbs.com/synthetic-data
